

Wang2007 - ATP induced intracellular Calicum Oscillation

The model simulate the ATP-induced intracellular Ca2+ oscillations and the
quantitative effect of ATP concentration on the oscillation characteristics
such as the duration, peak concentration of intracellular Ca2+ and average
interval.

This model is described in the article:

[A quantitative kinetic model for ATP-induced intracellular Ca2+
oscillations.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/17188305)

Wang J, Huang X, Huang W.

J. Theor. Biol. 2007 Apr; 245(3): 510-519

Abstract:

A quantitative kinetic model is proposed to simulate the ATP-induced
intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations. The quantitative effect of ATP
concentration upon the oscillations was successfully simulated. Our simulation
results support previous experimental explanations that the Ca(2+)
oscillations are mainly due to interaction of Ca(2+) release from the
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the ATP-dependent Ca(2+) pump back into the ER,
and the oscillations are prolonged by extracellular Ca(2+) entry that
maintains the constant Ca(2+) supplies to its intracellular stores. The model
is also able to simulate the sudden disappearance phenomenon of the Ca(2+)
oscillations observed in some cell types by taking into account of the
biphasic characteristic of the Ca(2+) release from the endoplasmic reticulum
(ER). Moreover, the model simulation results for the Ca(2+) oscillations
characteristics such as duration, peak [Ca(2+)](cyt), and average interval,
etc., lead to prediction of some possible factors responsible for the
variations of Ca(2+) oscillations in different types of cells.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000145](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000145).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

